# What is income?

**Income** is the consumption and saving opportunity gained by an entity within a specified timeframe, which is generally expressed in monetary terms.
Income is difficult to define conceptually and may be different across fields.
For example, a person's income in an economic sense may be different from their income as defined by law.

1. For households and individuals, income is defined by tax law as a sum that includes any wage, salary, profit, interest payment, rent, or other forms of earnings received in a calendar year.

2. **Factor income** is the return accruing for a person, or a nation, derived from the factors of production.
   Factor income includes rental income, wages generated by labor, the interest created by capital, and profits from entrepreneurial ventures.
   
3. For households and individuals, **gross income** is the sum of all wages, salaries, profits, interest payments, rents, and other forms of earnings, before any deductions or taxes.
   It is opposed to **net income**, defined as the gross income minus taxes and other deductions (e.g., mandatory pension contributions).
   For a firm, gross income (also gross profit, sales profit, or credit sales) is the difference between revenue and the cost of making a product or providing a service,
   before deducting overheads, payroll, taxation, and interest payments.
   Net income nets out expenses: net income equals revenue minus cost of goods sold, expenses, depreciation, interest, and taxes.
   
4. **Disposable income** is total personal income minus current income taxes.
   In national accounts definitions, **personal income** minus personal current taxes equals disposable personal income.
   Subtracting personal outlays (which includes the major category of personal [or private] consumption expenditure) yields personal (or, private) savings, hence the income left after paying away all the taxes is referred to as disposable income.

5. **Discretionary income** is disposable income (after-tax income), minus all payments necessary to meet current bills.
   It is total personal income after subtracting taxes and minimal survival expenses (such as food, medicine, rent or mortgage, utilities, insurance, transportation, property maintenance, child support, etc.)
   to maintain a certain standard of living.
   It is the amount of an individual's income available for spending after the essentials have been taken care of:

   Discretionary income = gross income – taxes – all compelled payments (bills)

6. In the field of public economics, income may comprise the accumulation of both monetary and non-monetary consumption ability,
    with the former (monetary) as a proxy for total income.


Income inequality is usually computed for disposable income.

# Transfer Payment

In macroeconomics and finance, a transfer payment (also called a government transfer or simply fiscal transfer) is a redistribution of income and wealth through government payments without goods or services being received in return.
These payments are non-exhaustive because they do not directly absorb resources or create output.
Examples of transfer payments include welfare, financial aid, social security, and government subsidies for certain businesses.

A criticism of transfer payments is that they do not produce economically advantageous outcomes.
Governments pool taxes and other sources of revenue together and spend the money to further a certain agenda.
Some of the transfer payments are for goods and services, such as buildings, equipment, and government worker salaries.
These expenditures are exchanges in which money is traded for something with a recognized value.
The payments may be viewed as boosting industrial activity and employment.
However, government transfer payments do not boost production or economic activity.
For example, foreign aid does not necessarily prompt foreign trade.
Additionally, some argue that welfare programs, such as unemployment benefits, reduce incentives to take paid work.

Furthermore, the macroeconomic effect of transfer payments is reduced in lower-income countries and regions/states.
The reasons for such disparity are the following:

1. the level of transfer payments is subject to the fiscal capacities of the administering entity
2. the size of transfer payments is generally dependent on the previous earnings of the beneficiary
3. the largest share of transfer payments is typically administered to the older age groups, which constitute the smallest share of the population of the lower-income countries and regions/states

[Next](./NegativeIncome.md)
